Dr Gayle Chong Kwan ‘Travelling Taxonomies’ Sloane Lab Community Fellowship at the British Museum, 2023 - 2024

‘Travelling Taxonomies’ focuses on Hans Sloane’s ‘Miscellanies’, objects that by their very designation were considered to sit outside clear categorisation, and Sloane’s changing display of objects, the movement of these between cabinets, and the different configurations in which he presented and performed them to visitors. A new data set was created by 'tabulating' objects from Sloane’s ‘Miscellanies’ that moved between cabinets. A selection of these objects, listed in catalogues as title, textual description, and pencil markings alongside the entries, were the starting point for open-ended physical and discursive sessions with movement practitioners, including a dancer, drummer, actor, dance journalist, gardener, and art therapist. In resistance to the tendency to classify, categorise, and record, these sessions were not recorded nor were material or physical outputs created during them. Outputs: a data set of objects that moved between cabinets; Miro Board mind maps of engagement sessions; and a ‘Proposal for a Ballet’ set in the Enlightenment Gallery of the British Museum – part script, movement notation, images, and sound piece this work recognises how objects were brought into European/Western framing, categorisation, and reference. The research explores and creates choreography of movement in which objects, meaning, and taxonomies travel as creative resistance to hierarchies of confinement and control.

 


Dr Gayle Chong Kwan is an award-winning multidisciplinary artist and academic whose work is exhibited internationally in galleries and the public realm. Her large-scale photographic works, immersive installations, and sensory ritual events act within and against histories of oppression and positions the viewer as one element in a cosmology of the political, social, and ecological. She has a PhD from the Royal College of Art on ‘Imaginal Travel: political and ecological positioning as fine art practice’ (2023). Exhibitions: ‘Cyclops’, Fondation Valmont, Venice (2024); ‘A Pocket Full of Sand’, John Hansard Gallery, Southampton (2024); ‘The Taotie’, Compton Verney, Warwickshire (2024); Wastescape, Auckland, New Zealand (2019). Winner of the Sustainable Art Prize (2019). 
